Corona-related research also cited unrelated research. The grey bars reveal a steady growth of references to Covid-19 unrelated work. For example, from ~6000 references in April 2020 up to ~90k references in August 2021 for *Articles*. The amount of references to Covid-19 unrelated research was higher than to related research (see above) until January 2021 which indicates that researchers had to rely more on Covid-19 unrelated research during the first year of the pandemic. This pattern is even more accentuated in the case of *Syntheses* but much lesser in the case of *Preprints* and *Problems*.

The mix of the different document types among references to Covid-19 unrelated research provides a rather homogenous picture that lacks any disruptions or stronger dynamics. For example, *Articles* mostly cite other *Articles* (~75%) or *Syntheses* (~23%) for almost the whole timespan. However, during the first four months there are even more references to *Articles*, especially at the expense of citations to *Syntheses* which is likely a data bias due to the low number Covid-19 related research that was published during that time. Similar patterns can be found if other citing items are selected.

If *Preprints*  are selected, *Articles* make up even higher portions of the references to Covid-19 unrelated research. In contrast, references to*Syntheses*  cross a 21% threshold not before August 2021. Notably, while preprint-to-preprint citations were highly frequent in the case when citing and cited item are Covid-19 related (see above), Covid-19 unrelated preprints are not cited at any meaningful level by other preprints. In fact, there are only five months in the whole dataset (1,2,26,29,32) where references to *Preprints*  make up 1% of all references made by Covid-19 related preprints *Preprints*.
 