### A reversed Matthew Effect?
The values for concentration (HHI) and inequality (GINI) are rather hard to interpret reliably and are likely driven by the production of new items. Especially the Gini coefficient suggests how the citation inequality steadily decreases, probably due to a growth in citing items. The HHI seems to be more independent of size effects in general, but becomes similarly sensitive when te sample is too small, as in the case of preprints. 
Overall, it must be concluded that the different distributions behind the green and blue line make the interpretation of Gini and HHI unreliable. Instead, alternative statistics should be used to assess the shape of the distributions more directly.


## Other indicators
The following figure can be used to display auxilliary metrics, such as aboslute counts, rates of distinct items and different types of Kurtosis or Skewness. For example, the values for Skewness and Kurtosis show how the citation distributions are heavily skewed towards the left and with strong right tails. Such distributions are common in bibliometrics and can be described as lognormal, negative binomial or as other types of power law distributions [Thelwall 2016](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1751157715301449). 

Kurtosis is used to describe where the weight of the distribution is located, either many values concentrate close to the peak, or they are more evenly distributed towards the flanks of the distribution. With regards to citation data, such "flanks" could represent publications that are top ranked in their (smaller) fields, but not top ranked overall. However, there is no agreed-upon definition of Kurtosis and values are very sensitive to differences in sample size which are large in our dataset [see Cox 2010](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/1536867X1001000311). *Note that median- or percentile-based (size-independent) definitions of skewness can be problematic for bibliometric data because they result in a division by zero if the the smallest value in the distribution accounts for 75% of the data!*
