# Discussion and Conclusions

The previous analyses have offered various perspectives of pandemic publication practices with an emphasis on document types and genres. **So, what are the main takeaways?**

1. **Editorials, letters and news items played an important and potentially neglected role during early scholarly crisis response.** Most of the time, these document types which we combined as *Problems* were the third most frequent ones in the discourse, and even the second most important one during the first year of the pandemic. This applies for the production and also the citation of documents. However, only little attention was paid to these publication genres in reflective discourses, while there were substantial debates about preprinting in the metasciences, academia, or even wider publics. Therefore, further investigations of scholarly crisis response should analyze the role of these document types in more detail.

2. **Second, preprinting might be more than just a publishing practice, but rather evolved into a much more profound communication behavior.** The analysis of the references has shown that especially preprints cite other preprints, but preprints seem to disappear from the reference lists of fully published items. Authors might consider it inappropriate to include preprints in the reference lists of their peer reviewed publications, or editors (and reviewers alike) suggest their exclusion. Further studies could highlight if the references are removed altogether or just changed to the peer reviewed and fully published version of the preprint. However, it should also be investigated whether not only publishing but also reading and communication behavior relocated to the preprint servers during the early phase of the pandemic. In this case, the center of scholarly communication and attention would have shifted towards preprint servers where faster exchange and discussion was possible. In such cases, the final publication and peer review process may even have become more of a curatorial task, with less attention paid to it. 

3. **Third, a crisis such as the Covid-19 pandemic can amplify the inequality between genralist perspectives and specialist perspectives on a topic.** Publications that cover a certain topic in a general sense are also citable by publications from smaller and highly specialized subdisciplines. The opposite relation, however, is highly unlikely. In other words, there might have been a handful of central publications with general perspectives about Covid-19 which were cited across various domains and biomedical subdisciplines. While this form of concentration might be important to establish a shared research trend or "bandwagon" ([Fujimura 1988](https://doi.org/10.2307/800622) ), it can also foster and perpetuate certain framings which might hinder innovation and change ([Zollman 2007](https://doi.org/10.1086/525605); [Greenberg 2009](https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.b2680) ).

